4/30/26, 11:17 PM

Code Of Conduct

NEURAL INFORMATION PROCESSING
SYSTEMS FOUNDATION CODE OF
CONDUCT

We the participants, employees, and other individuals involved with Neural
Information Processing Systems, come together for the open exchange of ideas,
the freedom of thought and expression, and for respectful scientific debate
which is central to the goals of this Conference. This requires a community and
an environment that recognizes and respects the inherent worth of every person.

RESPONSIBILITY

All participants, organizers, reviewers, speakers, media, sponsors, and volunteers
(referred to as “Participants” collectively throughout this document) at our
Conference, workshops, and Conference-sponsored social events are required to
agree with this Code of Conduct both during an event and on official
communication channels, including social media.

Sponsors are equally subject to this Code of Conduct. In particular, sponsors
should not use images, activities, or other materials that are of a sexual, racial, or
otherwise offensive nature. This code applies both to official sponsors as well as
any organization that uses the Conference name as branding as part of its
activities at or around the Conference.

Organizers will enforce this Code, and it is expected that all Participants will
cooperate to help ensure a safe and inclusive environment for everyone.

POLICY

The conference commits itself to providing an experience for all Participants that
is free from the following [1]:

e Harassment, bullying, and discrimination which includes but is not limited to:
o Offensive comments related to age, race, religion, creed, color, gender
(including transgender/gender identity/gender expression), sexual
orientation, medical condition, physical or intellectual disability,
pregnancy, or medical conditions, national origin or ancestry.
o intimidation, personal attacks, harassment, unnecessary disruption of
talks or other conference events.
e Inappropriate or unprofessional behavior that interferes with another's full
participation including:
0 sexual harassment, stalking, following, harassing photography or
recording, inappropriate physical contact, unwelcome attention, public
vulgar exchanges, derogatory name-calling, and diminutive

Our
Privacy Policy »

https://neurips.cc/public/CodeOfConduct

Accept

1/3
4/30/26, 11:17 PM Code Of Conduct

environment.

° Disorderly, boisterous, or disruptive conduct including fighting, coercion,
theft, damage to property, or any mistreatment or non-businesslike
behavior towards participants.

© Zoom bombing or any virtual activity that is not related to the topic of
discussion which detracts from the topic or the purpose of the program.
This includes inappropriate remarks in chat areas as deemed
inappropriate by presenters/monitors/event leaders.

o Individuals and organizations that make false claims or accusations
related to Neural Information Processing Systems’ business or
inappropriately make comments online as if they represent Neural
Information Processing Systems without advanced approval.

¢ Scientific misconduct including fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism of
paper submissions or research presentations, including demos, exhibits or
posters.

This Code of Conduct applies to the actual meeting sites and conference venues
where Neural Information Processing Systems business is being conducted,
including physical, virtual venues, and official virtual engagement platforms,
including video, virtual streaming, and chat-based interactions. Neural
Information Processing Systems is not responsible for non-sponsored activity or
behavior that may occur at non-sponsored locations such as hotels, restaurants,
physical, virtual, or other locations not otherwise deemed a sanctioned space for
Neural Information Processing Systems sponsored events. Nonetheless, any
issues brought to the Hotline Relations Counselors will be considered. However, it
is also the case that Neural Information Processing Systems cannot actively
monitor voluntary social media platforms and cannot follow-up on every
transaction occurring between individuals who voluntarily engage in argument
and altercation outside the Neural Information Processing Systems sponsored
events virtual or otherwise.

ACTION

If a Participant engages in any inappropriate behavior as defined herein, the
Conference organizers may take action as deemed appropriate, including: a
formal or informal warning to the offender, expulsion from the conference with
no refund, barring from participation in future conferences or their organization,
reporting the incident to the offender’s local institution or funding agencies, or
reporting the incident to local authorities or law enforcement. A response of "just
joking" is not acceptable. If action is taken, an appeals process will be made
available. View the Code of Conduct Procedures document for further details
regarding the reporting of complaints or incidents. There will be no retaliation
against any Participant who brings a complaint or submits an incident report in
good faith or who honestly assists in investigating such a complaint. All issues
brought forth to the onsite Hotline Relations Counselors during the course of a
Conference will be immediately investigated.

COMPLAINT REPORTING

The Conference encourages all Participants to immediately report any incidents
of discrimination, harassment, unprofessional conduct, and/or retaliation so that
complaints can be quickly and fairly resolved. All complaints will be handled as
confidentially as possible and information will be disclosed only as it is
necessary to complete the investigation and bring to resolution. Please refer to

Our
Privacy Policy »>

https://neurips.cc/public/CodeOfConduct 2/3
4/30/26, 11:17 PM

Code Of Conduct

good faith or who honestly assists in investigating such a complaint. All issues
brought forth to the onsite Hotline Relations Counselors during the course of a
Conference will be immediately investigated.

If you have concerns related to your participation/interaction at the Conference
or Conference sanctioned events, or observe someone else's difficulties, or have
any other concerns you wish to share, please contact the Neural Information
Processing Systems Hotline Email at hotline@)neurips.cc. You may also use our
Contact Form. In addition, an HR Consultant will be present at the annual

Conference. Participants may look for signage or check in with the Registration
Desk to locate their station. Complaints and violations will be researched and
investigated as appropriate by the HR Consultant. Reports made during the
Conference will be responded to within 24 hours: those at other times in less
than two weeks. We are prepared and eager to help Participants contact relevant
help services, to escort them to a safe location, or to otherwise assist those
experiencing harassment of any sort to feel safe for the duration of the
Conference. We gratefully accept feedback from the Neural Information
Processing Systems community on policy and actions using the contact form
above.

(1) specifically, the following list covers in more detail features of behavior that
could be subject to prejudice, harassment or discrimination: physical, cultural, or
linguistic characteristics associated with a national origin group; marriage to or
association with persons of a national origin group; tribal affiliation; membership
in or association with an organization identified with or seeking to promote the
interests of a national origin group; attendance or participation in schools,
churches, temples, mosques, or other religious institutions generally used by
persons of national origin group; and any name that is associated with a national
origin group, genotype, marital status or registered domestic partner status.
Other examples include: breastfeeding, military or veteran status, politics,
technology choices, and age.

O
-
=

Privacy Policy_»

https://neurips.cc/public/CodeOfConduct

3/3
