4/30/26, 11:18 PM Academic Integrity

Academic Integrity in Research
Paper Submissions and Reviews
September 19, 2024

This policy is an expansion of existing policies regarding the Code of Conduct and
the Code of Ethics in regard to specific matters related to academic integrity
throughout the submission and review process of research paper submissions.

The integrity of research paper submissions and the peer review process is vital
to NeurlPS and our scientific community. NeurlPS will not tolerate evaluations
that are judged based on favoritism, personal loyalties, mutual gain, or any
ground other than scientific and academic merit. NeurlPS proposes to allow data
sharing across specified research field related “Sister Organizations” (defined
below) as one way to identify those who engage in collusion and other research
misconduct and give every researcher in our field an equal opportunity to have
their ideas heard.

|. Definitions

“Submission(s)” is defined as any paper, manuscript, or other research,
including underlying research data, that is submitted to NeurIPS or any Sister
Organization for the purposes of publication or presentation at the NeurlPS
Conference, or a conference of any Sister Organization.

“Submission and Review Information’ is defined as:

1. The title and content of any Submission;

2. The name, employer(s), and educational background of the author(s) of
any Submission;

3. The name, employer(s) and educational background of anyone who agrees
to review a Submission (i.e., a “Reviewer’):

4. The ratings and comments provided by any Reviewer regarding a
Submission; and

5. Statistics regarding the review process, including but not limited to: the
number of submissions a particular Reviewer has reviewed, the length of
those reviews, the dates those reviews occurred, whether any of those
reviews were late and, if so, how long they were late.

"Submitter(s)” is defined as any listed author on a Submission. In addition, if
NeurlPS believes that an individual contributed to a Submission but was not
listed as an author to avoid detection under this policy, or otherwise engage in
scientific fraud or academic dishonesty, NeurlPS reserves sole discretion to treat
that un-listed individual as a “Submitter” under this policy.

“Sister Organization(s)” is defined as other related academic organizations that
Qur

Accept

Privacy Policy »

https://neurips.cc/public/guides/Academicintegrity 1/4
4/30/26, 11:18 PM

Academic Integrity

(ICML). “Sister Organization” may also include any organization that serves as an
intermediary between submitters and reviewers, including websites,
clearinghouses, and other platforms that accept, store, and transmit
submissions, and provide a method to provide comments, scores, and other
feedback regarding submissions to submitters, NeurlPS and other Sister
Organizations. This includes, but is not limited to: https://OpenReview.net. NeurlPS
maintains sole discretion, at any time, to add or remove entities from this
definition.

“Misrepresentation’ is defined as a false statement of fact or truth in any
Submission or any rating or comment provided by a Reviewer.

“Falsification’ is defined as intentional misrepresentation of research results,
supporting data and materials, or noted references.

“Coercion” is defined as any attempt to intimidate, harm, demean, use force
against, or use one’s position or authority to persuade or take advantage of
someone for the betterment of themselves.

“Collusion” is defined as any agreement or understanding between two or more
Submitter(s), Reviewer(s) or other person(s) to give Submission(s) artificially high
or low ratings, or otherwise artificially improve or damage a Submission’s chance
of acceptance or publication by NeurIPS or any Sister Organization out of self-
interest, personal loyalties, or mutual gain, not the merits of the Submission.

“Share” or “sharing” means to transmit information to a secure server, that
cannot be accessed by un-authorized third-parties, in such a way that the
authorized party can see, read, and/or apply algorithms to the information, but
cannot save or transmit the information outside of the secure server.

“Present” or “presenting” means to convey information, in-person or
electronically, in such a way that the audience can see, read, and/or hear the
information, but cannot save or record the information. This includes, but is not
limited to, an in-person meeting where participants are barred from recording
the discussion or taking photos, and virtual meetings or presentations where
recording, downloading, and screenshotting similarly have been disabled.

|. Limited Sharing and Presenting of
Information to Ensure Academic Integrity

Any Submitter to NeurIPS, or Reviewer, acknowledges and agrees to the
following provisions, and that they are intended to ensure the highest ethical
standards while furthering the field of Artificial Intelligence and Machine
Learning:

¢ NeurIPS will maintain or designate a secure server, that cannot be accessed
by un-authorized third-parties, for the purposes of analyzing, presenting, and
sharing Submission and Review Information and thereby verifying that all
Submissions are judged solely on their merit. NeurlPS maintains sole
discretion to grant, modify or revoke access to its Submission and Review
Information on that secure server, including with its own
assigned investigator(s) or the Ethics & Grievance Committee. NeurIPS will
not grant a Sister Organization (including, but not limited to, that
organization's investigator(s) or Ethics & Grievance Committee) access to the
sectire server. ar atherwise share Suhmission and Review Information with

Our
Privacy Policy »>

https://neurips.cc/public/guides/AcademiclIntegrity

2/4
4/30/26, 11:18 PM

Academic Integrity

e In turn, Sister Organizations may provide NeurIPS (including, but not limited
to, NeurIPS' Program Chairs, their assigned investigator(s), or the Ethics &
Grievance Committee) access to that Sister's Organization Submission and
Review Information on the secure server, or otherwise present that
information to NeurlPS, so NeurlPS may analyze Submission and Review
Information and verify that all Submissions are judged solely on their merit.

e If the initial investigation by the Program Chairs or their designated
Investigator(s) indicates that collusion or other academic dishonesty may
have taken place, and it therefore needs to coordinate internally with
NeurlPS or with a Sister Organization to complete the investigation,
determine potential sanctions, or impose sanctions, NeurlPS may also
present Submission and Review Information to NeurlPS personnel beyond
the Program Chairs or their designated investigator(s). Similarly, in this
context, NeurlPS may also present Submission and Review Information to
personnel of a Sister Organization beyond that organization's investigator(s)
or Ethics Committee, as described above.

e Providing Sister Organization(s) access to Submission and Review
Information, or otherwise sharing or presenting Submission and Review
Information with a Sister Organization, may occur at any time, including after
a paper has been published or presented at the NeurIPS conference, or a
conference by a Sister Organization.

e Because this policy is rooted in long-standing concepts of academic integrity
and fairness, NeurlPS also reserves sole discretion to analyze, share and
present Submission and Review Information that was created and/or
collected before the announcement of this policy, and also may share or
present that Submission and Review Information with other Sister
Organizations, for the purposes of maintaining academic integrity and
fairness. Any Submitter to NeurlPS, or any Reviewer, further agrees toa
limited waiver of any privacy interest they may have in their name, current
employer, academic background, or any other personal identifying
information they have provided to NeurIPS, including but not limited to the
Submission and Review Information. All Submitters and Reviewers further
agree to grant NeurIPS a limited, royalty-free license to share and present
their Submission and all Submission and Review Information, so that NeurIPS
may work with authorized Sister Organizations to ensure academic integrity.

lll. Investigation and Sanctions

Sanctions against a Submitter or Reviewer who has violated this policy or any
other portion of the Code of Conduct will depend on the nature and severity of
the offense(s) and after a review of all relevant information. Because violations
of this policy or the Code of Conduct affect NeurIPS and all of its community
members, a review may be conducted without the consent or participation of the
reporting or accusing party.

Investigations will be conducted by the Program Chairs, or by an individual or
sub-committee designated by the Program Chairs. That designee will then report
their findings back directly to the Program Chairs. The Program Chairs will
determine whether this policy has been violated, and it will provide
recommended sanctions (examples provided below), to the NeurlPS Board of
Directors. This recommendation may include presenting Submission and Review
Information, as discussed above. The Board of Directors may consult with
Qur
Privacy Policy >»

https://neurips.cc/public/guides/AcademiclIntegrity

3/4
4/30/26, 11:18 PM

Academic Integrity

accept the recommended sanction, or instead impose a different sanction which
could be more or less severe than the sanction recommended by the Program
Chairs. As further described below, a Submitter or Reviewer will have an
opportunity to appeal prior to the imposition of any sanction.

At all times the privacy of the parties involved in any investigation are held to be
confidential and are assumed innocent until proof through investigation reveals
otherwise. The Code of Conduct Procedures also provides additional information
regarding how investigations will be conducted.

Sanctions may include, but are not restricted to, any combination of the
following:

¢ Formal or informal warning or counseling to the offender.

e Expulsion from a particular conference with no refund.

e Suspension from participation in future conferences, NeurlPS Foundation
events, making Submissions, or serving as a Reviewer (for a set number of

conferences, permanently, or indefinitely until NeurlPS determines additional

review is needed),

e Reporting the incident to the offender’s employer, educational institution,
funding agencies or any other entity affiliated with the offender.

¢ Reporting the incident to local authorities or law enforcement.

e Requirement of conciliatory efforts that may include an apology, informal
mediation, or other steps intended to facilitate restoration of relationships.

e Other action(s) as deemed appropriate.

Any sanction may be voluntary or mandatory; for a specified or unspecified
period of time; subject to periodic review and/or achievement of specific action
items; or imposed permanently. If a sanction is to be imposed by the Board of
Directors, an appeals process will be made available through the Ethics &
Grievance Committee. Requests for appeal should be emailed to
hotline@jneurips.cc. NeurlPS will then provide directions for submitting a written
appeal, and additional information regarding the appeals process.

This policy expands and becomes a subset of the Code of Conduct and the Code
of Ethics of the NeurIPS Foundation and will remain in effect indefinitely unless
explicitly rescinded or amended, in writing, by the NeurIPS Board of Directors, in
its sole discretion. NeurIPS expects all Submitters, Reviewers, and other

conference participants to work proactively to promote academic integrity within

all NeurlIPS activities, to prevent violations of the Code of Conduct and Code of
Ethics, as well as to work collaboratively to resolve violations if they occur.

CO
Cc
aa

Privacy Policy »>

https://neurips.cc/public/guides/AcademiclIntegrity

Al4
