4/30/26, 11:21 PM ABOUT ML Foundational Resource - Partnership on Al

O
A PARTNERSHIP ON Al (m) C )

Overview

ABOUT ML (Annotation and Benchmarking on Understanding
and Transparency of Machine learning Lifecycles) is a multi-

year, multi-stakeholder initiative aimed at building
transparency into the Al development process, industry-wide,
through full lifecycle documentation. On this page, you will
find the collected outputs of ABOUT ML, a library of resources
designed to help organizations and individuals begin
Implementing transparency at scale. To further increase the
usability of these resources, recommended reading plans for
different readers are provided below.

Learn more about the origins of ABOUT ML and contributors to
the project here.

https://partnershiponai.org/about-ml-resources-library/ 1/6
4/30/26, 11:21 PM ABOUT ML Foundational Resource - Partnership on Al

At the foundation of these resources lies the newly revised
ABOUT ML Reference Document, which both identifies
transparency goals and offers suggestions on how they might

be achieved. Using principles provided by the Reference
Document and insights about implementation gathered
through our research, PAI plans to release additional ML
documentation guides, templates, recommendations, and
other artifacts. These future artifacts will also be available on
this page.

READ THE FULL ABOUT ML REFERENCE
DOCUMENT

Resources >

ABOUT ML Reference Process Guide
Document

https://partnershiponai.org/about-ml-resources-library/ 2/6
4/30/26, 11:21 PM ABOUT ML Foundational Resource - Partnership on Al

O
A PARTNERSHIP ON Al (m) C )

ML System Developers/Deployers

ML system developers/deployers are encouraged to do a deep
dive exploration of Section 3: Preliminary Synthesized
Documentation Suggestions and use it to highlight gaps In
their current understanding of both data- and model-related

documentation and planning needs. This group will most
benefit from further participation in the ABOUT ML effort by
engaging with the community in the forthcoming online forum
and by testing the efficacy and applicability of templates and
Specifications to be published in the PLAYBOOK and PILOTS,
which will be developed based on use cases as an opportunity
to implement ML documentation processes within an

organization.

ML System Procurers

ML system procurers might explore Section 2.2:
Documentation to Operationalize Al Ethics Goals to get ideas

about what concepts to include as requirements for models
and data in future requests for proposals relevant to ML

systems. Additionally, they could use Section 2.3: Research

Themes on Documentation for Transparency to shape
conversations with the business owners and requirements
writers to further elicit detailed key performance indicators

and measures for success for any procured ML systems.

https://partnershiponai.org/about-ml-resources-library/ 3/6
4/30/26, 11:21 PM

ABOUT ML Foundational Resource - Partnership on Al

O
A PARTNERSHIP ON Al (m) C )

Users of ML system APIs and/or experienced end users of ML
systems might skim the document and review all of the coral
Quick Guides to get a better understanding of how ML
concepts are relevant to many of the tools they regularly use. A

review of Section 2.1: Demand for Transparency and Al Ethics in

ML Systems will provide insight into conditions where it is

appropriate to use ML systems. This section also explains how
transparency is a foundation for both internal accountability
among the developers, deployers, and API users of an ML
system and external accountability to customers, impacted
non-users, civil society organizations, and policymakers.

Internal Compliance Teams

Internal compliance teams are encouraged to explore Section

4: Current Challenges of Implementing Documentation and

use it to shape conversations with developer/deployment
teams to find ways to measure compliance throughout the
Machine Learning Lifecycle (MLLC).

External Auditors

External auditors could skim Appendix: Compiled List of

Documentation Questions and familiarize themselves with

high-level concepts as well as tactically operationalized tenets

https://partnershiponai.org/about-ml-resources-library/

4/6
4/30/26, 11:21 PM ABOUT ML Foundational Resource - Partnership on Al

O
A PARTNERSHIP ON Al (m) C )

Lay Users of ML Systems and/or Members of Low-Income
Communities

Lay users of ML systems and/or members of low-income
communities might skim the document and review all of the
blue “How We Define” boxes in order to get an overarching
understanding of the text’s contents. These users are
encouraged to continue learning ABOUT ML systems by
exploring how they might impact their everyday lives.
Additional insights can be gathered from the Glossary section
of the ABOUT ML Reference Document.

OUR WORK

RESOURCES

EVENTS

ABOUT US

PARTNERS

https://partnershiponai.org/about-ml-resources-library/ 5/6
4/30/26, 11:21 PM ABOUT ML Foundational Resource - Partnership on Al

O
A PARTNERSHIP ON Al (m) C )

WY CUCDO FAluICholily UII AL | All RIS Tits NCOSCIVoCU

Transparency and Governance

Privacy Policy

https://partnershiponai.org/about-ml-resources-library/ 6/6
